We'll start with exploring what exactly it means when we say data pipeline.
A data pipeline is a set of processes to move data from a source to destination,
possibly transforming the data along the way.
We'll understand this with an example.
We have an e-commerce business.
We sell backpacks.
Our site is knapsack.com,
and we have an app,
iOS and Android with the name knapsack.
We want to collect and use data.
Data will be generated from the website and mobile app.
We will be using this data for
some business insights and maybe for some machine learning applications.
What will the data pipeline do here?
It will collect data from data producers,
process it depending on business requirements
and deliver it to the stakeholders for making business decisions.
This graphic represents a very basic view of
what our data pipeline for knapsack might look like.
There are data producers,
a pipeline to do something with the data and the consumers of that data.
It's important to be able to visualize
a data pipeline and is a skill a data product manager should possess.
Before you create your own visualizations,
you first need to be able to identify the parts of a data pipeline.
A data pipeline is something that takes data from one place to another,
has one or more data inputs,
has one or more data outputs,
transforms or replicates data.
A few more things to note about data pipelines are,
data pipeline could be a third party solutions such as Alooma,
segment or stitch data or it could be built in house carefully selecting each part.
An enterprise might have multiple data pipelines,
each optimized for a specific set of use cases.
A data pipeline could be,
optimized for real-time use cases,
or for batch data use cases.
Data pipelines could be building
cloud where in every piece of technology is hosted on cloud.
This may save on infrastructure and on expert resources needed.
Data pipelines could also be built using open source solution.
That gives businesses a huge opportunity to customize,
also it saves cost of buying commercial data products.
If we already have in house expertise to make it work,
then it's better to have built in house,
and this brings us to the end of this concept.